[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What makes people
truly fulfilled?
Is it love, family,
success, or is it
finding out who you really are,
what you are truly made of,
so you know your purpose here
on Earth and your connection
to the universe?
We exist as physical beings
in a physical reality,
while our mind is in
constant communication
with unseen forces
and unknown worlds.
We are the visible part
of a potentially infinite
invisible realm.
How do the two worlds, mind
and matter, coexist, collide,
and interact?
PK is short for psychokinesis.
It is the ability to
move a physical object
without physical contact.
I've been working with PK
for the past couple of years
with very interesting results.
It is your Intent
that is interacting
with the physical object that
is getting it to respond.
But the minute you
let go of the results
is when you get the result.
At the Institute of Biosensory
Psychology in St. Petersburg,
Russia, you can learn how
to use your consciousness
to move a physical object.
A graduate from this institute
is UC Berkeley's quantum
physicist, Dr.
George Weissman, who
has been able to demonstrate
these effects repeatedly
and over the past several years.
>> Well, it's just a
freely suspended object,
and it's inside the glass
cylinder so that it's isolated
from the heat, from
draft, and so on.
If you leave it alone,
it doesn't move at all.
What we do is to basically
focus on it and make it turn.
So from the audio
physics perspective,
this is impossible.
It's not that there's
consciousness in those objects.
Objects and space and time
all are manifestations
within consciousness.
It's a kind of unification.
Matter, so-called particles, are
more like information carriers.
Particles are not things.
Even once you've seen it,
it's not an actual existing
particle, but then it can
be thought of in a way.
It is described by this
wave function, which
is just a probability function.
>> I asked PK practitioner
and meditation teacher,
Sean McNamara, to facilitate
a session with my friend,
Rachele, who had never practiced
PK before and was eager to try.
Sean, I'm so excited about this.
>> Me, too.
>> I mentioned Rachele to you.
>> I can't tell you
how excited I am.
I cannot wait to learn.
>> It sounds like you have
a lot of confidence already,
like some part of you already
believes that it's possible.
Is that true?
>> Oh, I do.
I have been studying and so
passionate about the power
of thought and intention.
I mean, ever since
I was 14, I know--
I went through a really
difficult time in my life.
I saw a movie that
changed my life,
and I had this very
life-changing experience.
I was like, that's
what I want to do.
I want to perform.
I want to act.
I want to inspire people just
like that film did for me.
Through focusing on that,
intending it, writing it down,
and having vision boards, seeing
it, watching it every day,
seeing myself do it
every day, I ended up
playing the lead in the
sequel to that same film
six years later,
something that everybody
told me was impossible.
>> Where you place your
awareness is where energy goes.
That's basically
all we're doing here
with this psychokinesis
experiment.
We're going to produce
movement by using
our mind in a certain way.
And it's really
like baking a cake.
You put all the right
ingredients together,
and you put them in the oven,
and you give it enough time.
And when enough
time has passed, you
pull out this beautiful,
delicious cake.
>> And no calories involved.
>> [LAUGHING]
>> It is a meditation process in
itself and the way other types
of meditation have those
life lessons wrapped in.
You see it's right in
front of your eyes.
If you're too tense,
it stops moving.
When you relax, it
starts moving again.
If you don't give it enough
time, it doesn't work.
If you let go, it works.
So this is just another way
of showing those basic life
principles that
we all know about.
And so at this point, we
can lift up your container,
and you'll want to do this very
slowly, because when you do it
too quickly, it knocks off
the tin foil from the needle.
And then you'll want to just
put your hands on the glass
on either side of the object.
Eventually, it'll
start responding
to your breathing pattern and
to the level of relaxation
in your mind.
So yeah, when it
starts, it means
that the shift has
occurred within you,
and your mind just
started responding, too.
So I think we're
sharing a field now.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> Is it working?
>> That is so cool to watch.
Yeah, I mean, it
was totally still.
>> It's moving.
as maybe silly to some
as this may sound,
sending love to the material,
saying, like, I love you.
Like, let's work
together on this.
Let's be one.
You know, let's move together.
>> Look what it's doing as
you're talking about love.
>> Your heart's opening as
you're talking about it,
and it feels it.
>> And I can also feel whenever
I start to feel those ego
thoughts or wanting to get it
right or afraid of failure,
then there's this disconnect.
And I think that's so
powerful to understand
that that's the
whole thing of ego
is the want to get it right is--
can block you.
But when you just allow, and
be filled with love and energy,
amazing, miraculous
things can happen.
>> Rachele will now attempt
to place two objects inside
the glass container and
see if she could, perhaps,
influence one object
and not the other.
>> I was wondering if I am
here, I'll have more ability.
>> Sure.
Keep going, because the other
one just started moving.
>> It's working.
>> There you go.
>> Clearly, Rachele's talented.
I mean, that is, like, amazing.
And it's her first time.
>> And this is the hardest
condition to be under.
Not only is it your
first time, but you
have six cameras on you.
There are other people in
the room watching, hoping,
expecting.
>> Yeah.
>> These are the hardest
conditions for anyone
to operate under
for a psychokinesis,
so congratulations.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Did you have fun?
>> Oh, my gosh,
it's so much fun.
After even just those two
experiments, you know,
I learned so much about myself.
If you practice these
things, you really
feel like a superhuman
version of yourself.
>> "Superhuman" is the
title of the film, yeah.
>> The photons that are bouncing
off of the objects are going
in through my eyes.
The rods and cones are
producing an electrical signal
that goes to the back
of my brain, which
reconstructs an image.
So what I'm really
looking at when
I look at the piece of paper,
tin foil, or a toothpick,
whatever it is I'm moving,
I'm looking at my own mind.
If we were truly
separate from each other,
there's no way we'd be
able to do PK because
of the inherent separateness.
But if we can dissolve
that sense that we're
separate from everything
and increase the sense
that we're already one,
then that makes PK possible.
Of course, it's
possible, because when
I'm moving an object,
I'm moving my own mind.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Dr. Mike Weliky is a
professor of neurobiology from
the University of California
in Berkeley and a researcher
at an NIH-funded laboratory.
His interest in PK began after
a profoundly transformative zen
meditation experience, which
led him to alter entirely
his model of reality.
>> This is completely sealed.
I'm getting electric--
>> I started working
with Mike in 2017,
and I was most impressed by
the scientific rigor he brings
to the field and also how
far we were able to stretch
the boundaries and possibilities
of this methodology.
>> And the model that I think
is probably more truthful is
a model that actually a famous
physicist, John Wheeler,
developed, which he calls
the Participative Universe.
Instead of having
the camera or the eye
and then a display
in this linear,
sort of causal
relationship, the universe
is actually this
self-excitatory loop,
where there is no separation
between the observer
and the observed,
but because they
form this continuous
interactive feedback.
And so this is why
I started to believe
in the possibility of PK, as a
scientist, because the object
is truly not outside of you.
But it's so-- for example,
if I want to move my finger,
my finger is connected
to my consciousness
through neural pathways in
the body and to my brain.
So when I want to move
it, it's a part of me,
and I can move it.
The piece of paper
in front of me
is not physically connected
with neural pathways.
But it still is a
phenomenon and an appearance
within my consciousness, what
you might call a back channel.
If you think about it,
the brain and, actually,
all the cells in our
body are phenomenon
occurring within this
bigger consciousness.
>> The idea is, then, to try to
influence this piece of paper
that's totally isolated
and get it to rotate.
>> To rotate without any effect
from any known physical forces.
>> You explained to me that it's
actually quite difficult to do
it with a vacuum, so there's--
>> Actually, it's impossible,
so not just difficult,
which is why I've
added a little twist,
which actually allows me to
accomplish this in a vacuum.
Something very similar to
this is inside the container.
And so what I'm
doing is I'm adding
random mechanical fluctuations
or perturbations to the target
by controlling the
amplitude of the signal
it gets to the speaker.
We can control the amplitude
and how much motion is actually
induced in the target, but
typically, it's probably
less than a millimeter.
It doesn't cause any large
scale order rotation,
but, rather, just this
very small oscillation
of the target.
The standard protocol for doing
a proper experimental design
is you obtain a
baseline period, just
establishing that
there is no motion,
that there is no
environmental effect.
>> So what you're saying when we
are creating the baseline over
several hours, this very small
linear oscillation is taken
into account.
>> Right, and will be visible.
>> And will be visible.
So we know that by the time
you're influencing the target,
we see a big difference,
and we see the rotation that
is coming from the
consciousness or the intent
as opposed to from
the little speaker.
I'm going to let
you try it yourself.
I'm going to leave
you some space.
>> OK.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So Mike, how did it go?
What happened?
>> If you can see,
here's the baseline,
and it shows that the target is
randomly moving back and forth.
So maybe like a degree
or so from peak to peak.
And then at this point here,
you see a larger rotation.
It's not something that
I am willing with my mind
and saying, "move," or
do this like a command,
but rather, it's much more of
a feeling of connectedness.
>> It is becoming clear that
mind and matter are entangled,
and the separation between
objects and consciousness is
nothing but an illusion.
If that is the
case, then I should
be able to influence
the same physical object
in close proximity or, perhaps,
1,000 miles away across two
states.
Well, let's find out.
Hey, Mike, how's it going?
>> Hi, nice to see you again.
>> Yeah, you, too.
Have you been practicing?
>> Yes, I'm looking forward
to another session tonight.
>> How long have you been
running the device before I
came on?
>> So I have about
an hour baseline,
and then we'll do your session,
which is usually typically you
run about an hour or so.
And then I continue after
you're done running a continued
baseline afterwards.
>> OK, awesome.
I'm ready whenever you are.
>> OK. good.
>> Here we go.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It was just, like, turning.
>> That's really something
I haven't seen before--
having it rotate multiple
times in succession like that.
>> Is it possible that people
who are watching would say this
is a fluke?
Could this ever be a
fluke, since the baseline
was established for so long?
>> Typically, during
the baselines,
it's completely
motionless and still.
So I'm confident that
the results we're getting
are being really provided
by your intention
and not by any other kinds
of environmental factors
that could be
influencing the target.
Every time we continue to
get these good results,
I become even more confident
that this is a true phenomenon
and that you really are
providing the trigger
for these rotations.
>> My theory is when we perform
PK or any other mind over
matter exercise, our
consciousness switches
the brain from
linear functioning,
firing randomly in different
areas, to 100% capacity,
whereby the brain
functions as a whole.
Anyone can do this.
In fact, without knowing
the anatomy of the brain,
all you have to do
is focus your intent
on the center of the brain.
And that information
is then distributed
through the corpus callosum
to the two hemispheres, which
allows you to understand
what's going on,
and through the endocrine
system, which then allows
you to feel what is going on.
Because the brain is now engaged
at its full 100% capacity,
you can now perceive
and experience things
beyond the normal human range,
meaning beyond time and space.
If this is true,
then we should be
able to transcend any limitation
of our physicality, perhaps
even our eyesight.
Our first stop is
in the UK, where
we encounter children who are
using blindfolds to access
their superhuman abilities.
We're going to play some games.
Put your blindfolds
on for me, please.
Ready?
Justin, tell me
what's on this card.
>> Teacup.
>> And now, tell me
what's on this card.
>> A tiger.
>> Isabella, what is the
shape and color of this stone?
>> Kind of like a circle, and
I don't-- and it's not really--
it's kind of, like, see-through.
>> Here's yet another example of
how consciousness can interact
with the physical world beyond
what science claims to be
possible.
>> When we work
with the blindfold,
it's so that we can encourage
the children to use the vision
that they have with their
higher consciousness.
>> Evie, tell me the shape
and color of the stone.
>> It's red and
kind of a circle.
>> Yes.
Evie, tell me what I'm
holding in my hand.
>> A wooden spoon.
>> We expand their consciousness
beyond that they believe
or understand that they can
take themselves into universal
energies.
>> OK, now let's go search
for that beautiful inner light
of yours.
>> I can see it.
>> Fantastic.
Bring the light out into
the area around you--
your light field.
>> I've done it.
>> Good boy.
Well done.
>> I can see it.
>> And then they can work
with the higher consciousness,
seeing, because they have the
potential to see from every
cell in their body.
>> Now, you're going
to read a line each.
>> The other dragons were purple
with smooth, shiny scales,
but Marmaduke was faded
orange with sticky-out scales.
>> Excellent.
Good girl.
>> It's like
witnessing a miracle.
It's really-- it's just
beautiful to watch.
>> George was enjoying a quiet
evening in the Heavenly Hippos
Wildlife Park.
Suddenly, he spotted a group
of animals creeping past.
>> The first time I
actually saw it for myself,
when I'd come to do my training,
the only word I can think of is
"emotional."
It was very emotional.
>> Pitter-patter.
The rain was tapping
in the windows,
and the wind was banging.
>> When my son started to
read, and I saw him reading--
>> Are they out is ruined.
>> They kind of shine.
It's just amazing.
>> No mouse would put a
paw out in that weather.
>> Needless to say, I wanted
to know what it felt like
to experience the physical
world through these blindfolds.
>> Totally dark, yes.
Wow.
>> Witnessing these incredible
children up close got us
on a journey to discovering
others around the world who are
applying similar methodologies
to achieve mindblowing results.
At MP USA in Ogden, Utah,
a blindfold technique
called Vibravision
helps you sense
the vibration of various
objects in the physical world.
>> All physical matter in the
universe is actually a form
of energy that's
made up of atoms.
And those atoms are
cycling or vibrating
at a certain frequency.
Practicing Vibravision
gives us the ability
to access our sensors and to
perceive those vibrations,
and then convert it into
a usable mental image we
call mindsight.
>> Red, yellow, blue,
yellow, orange, blue, green.
>> Yeah.
[APPLAUSE]
>> You can see the unseen to
do things that are thought
of as impossible.
>> Eight of clubs, 10 of
diamonds, five of hearts.
>> One, two, three.
>> At MP USA, folks of all ages
demonstrate these incredible
skills inside the academy
and out in the real world.
>> How about the grilled
chicken and sausage gumbo?
>> Gumbo, OK.
>> How much did it cost again?
>> $29.98.
>> Correct.
And Colton, what were
you just touching?
>> These are fan boxes.
>> All right.
What color is that?
>> That's blue.
>> And let's find
the Lays brand.
Old Spice body wash.
Very good.
>> From Utah, we make our
way to Stuttgart, Germany.
There, children are using
a different approach
to the methodology
and display skills
with impeccable accuracy.
>> [SPEAKING GERMAN]
>> In the beginning, it felt
a bit weird when I was able
to see without my eyes,
but after a while,
you get used to it.
>> [SPEAKING GERMAN]
>> I was rather skeptical
in the beginning,
but once I learned it
myself, my reaction was, wow,
this really works.
>> [SPEAKING GERMAN]
>> I believe much more
is possible than we know.
Human beings have a lot more
skills that they could develop.
I also have a granddaughter
who learned this skill and bops
around with a mask here today.
I'm amazed how well it works.
Groups around the world are
using various techniques
to achieve very similar results.
I decided to investigate the
origin of these methodologies,
which led me to Infovision
in Moscow, Russia,
and its founder,
Mark Komissarov, who
discovered blindfold
perception 20 years ago.
>> [SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
>> We developed a methodology
that first worked with kids.
Then I tried it with a blind
kid, and it worked, too.
Then I tried it with
adults, and it turns out
the methodology also
works with adults.
And that is what I've been
doing for the past 20 years.
>> Mark Komissarov's
colleague, Mihaela Istrati,
volunteered to offer
further assistance on how
the information
technique actually works.
>> Once these three are in
harmony, consciousness, mind,
and brain, then everything works
at the speed which the mind is
able to accept this update.
>> In an attempt to bring
scientific validation
to their methodology, Infovision
reached out to reputable
Italian neurosurgeon,
Professor Enrico Pierangelli,
and the theoretical physicist,
Professor Elio Conte,
from the University
of Bari in Italy.
>> We prepared some masks--
>> We prepared some masks with
instrumentation able to measure
the quantity of light
inside the mask.
Once we were sure the quantity
of light inside the mask
was zero, the
experiment was done.
>> The experiment was done.
>> [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> And the volunteers--
>> And the volunteers were
able to read the words
on the computer.
>> --the computer.
>> 19.
42.
>> Also, when they were asked--
>> Also, when they were asked
in which color these words were
written, they were also
able to describe the colors.
We just recognized
this as a fact.
>> --recognized
that this is a fact.
>> 5, 9, 8, 9.
>> These methodologies can be
applied to various eyesight
issues, such as Silvia's
advanced farsightedness,
Radu's severe astigmatism, which
had made it impossible for him
to read.
>> [SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>> Or even the blind, who
are now able to perceive
their environment
with more ease.
>> Now, we're talking about
something that is not just
to help you with your
guidance system or sense
your environment, but something
that is incredibly practical
and transformative.
>> [SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
>> When I see the tears of
a mother who brought a blind
child, and the child starts
seeing after my seminar,
that is what's important.
>> All the senses
are coming together,
and that gives you the
experience of the environment
non-locally.
So it is not that
you are visually
seeing what is behind you.
You are experiencing
what's behind you.
Back in the US, I
shared my research
with my long-time friend,
Kim, who, at the age of 33,
discovered she suffered from a
rare genetic macular disease.
While her condition is
medically impossible to cure,
Kim was willing to defy the
odds and potentially try
to regain her perfect eyesight.
>> My eyesight is something
that's been not normal for half
my life.
So the first half of my
life, first 33 years,
were perfect vision, perfect.
And then at age 33,
a genetic disease
appeared and became
worse and worse
over a period of two years.
And it's a rare eye disease
that affects the macula.
My biggest problem is that
I can't read very well
and have a lot of
different reading aids.
And I try to stay open to
anything, so I'm very excited.
And I'm hoping that I'll
have this improvement
in the sort of clarity of what
I can see and be able to read
a little easier,
to be able to see
somebody's face a little
clearer, read a sign.
It's just so frustrating.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
One of the things we did
that was really mind-blowing
was to wear a mask
that completely
blacked out all light.
There you go.
>> I would like you to
look around with the mask
in the darkness, for a
beginning, and sooner or later,
you will start to see some
little lights here and there.
>> You sit there for a while,
and then, all of a sudden,
you start seeing things.
All right, now I
have a white dot.
I started to see the whole--
it was as if I was seeing
the whole universe--
all of the stars, all
the constellations.
You could actually see
the stars blinking.
You could see meteors.
Because I can still
see the stars--
there you go.
It was very cool.
It's like you were--
and so you could just
sit there for a while
and just enjoy the show.
And then we started to use
colored pieces of paper
to determine if I
could see color.
>> Yeah, so let's do like this.
This is green.
See if there's any
difference in the colors.
>> Yours is purple,
the opposite color.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Your-- ah, here is red.
While I I couldn't see
100% of the colors--
some of the darker colors
were harder to see--
I could see colors.
I just have to wait,
and then it shows up.
Which is kind of the
point of the whole thing--
you don't need your eyes.
It's your awareness or your
consciousness that actually
is doing the perception.
And it actually feeds
to your visual system,
so you can then see it.
So your consciousness sees it
before your eyes see it, not
the other way around.
Everything's your attitude,
which is your perspective,
the way you go into things.
It's just keep that
attitude can-do.
I can do this.
Anybody can do this.
That seems like it's blue.
>> It is blue.
Let's start with
the mask, and I'd
like to set your focus as
a periscope on the papers
that I want you to see.
>> Green.
>> Excellent.
Excellent.
>> Looks like a pinky
red, magenta, whatever.
Pinky red.
>> Yeah, right.
Red.
Excellent.
>> I got yellow.
>> Yellow it is.
>> Oh.
>> Well done.
>> Pink.
>> Marvelous.
It is pink.
>> My instructor
would show me letters.
She'd hold up little
kids' letters,
and they'd be in a color, and
they're all capital letters.
And I could actually see those.
So-- and that wasn't
right here in front of me.
It was-- she's in Romania, so
it's many, many miles away.
I have a T.
>> Amazing, Kim.
That's what it is.
Well done.
Woo-hoo.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Normally, if I'd pick
up something to read,
I'd get my magnifying glass,
and I'd assume this position.
And this is really
hard on my neck.
It hurts, and I've had some
neck problems from constantly
doing the same pattern.
But now, I just pick it up, I
look at it, and I just wait.
And then I start reading.
OK, so now it's
getting really easy.
I used to take notes
and just write as if I--
like I used to write, thinking I
was writing well, but I wasn't.
And so now what I'm
doing is taking my time
and seeing what I'm
writing and making sure
that each letter has
a space around it
and so that I can now go back
and read it, whereas before,
I couldn't see anything,
because the letters
were on top of each other.
OK, it says, let's try this now.
I am going to write
in different sizes.
So now I'm just deciding to
pay attention, take my time,
and now I can read
what I write, huge.
The idea that seeing
is not believing,
that seeing doesn't have
anything to do with it,
it's more like you can perceive
everything-- the visible,
the invisible, whatever.
You perceive it with
your consciousness
and your awareness.
It's not seeing is believing.
In fact, it's
probably the opposite,
because your brain
plays tricks on you
through your vision
and other things.
So I think this is a
huge concept that's
applicable to everything.
>> The blindfolds are an
incredible tool that remind us
that we don't actually
see with our eyes.
We see with our brain.
But it is your
consciousness that
is reprogramming and
directing your brain
to perceive what you want
to perceive and experience
what you want to experience.
This is what this is about--
mind over matter.
If the current scientific
laws of physical reality
were accurate and complete, then
they shouldn't be broken ever.
And yet these laws are being
broken every day, repeatedly,
by hundreds of people
around the world.
The bottom line is this.
No matter what you believe in--
if you believe we live in
a matrix, in someone else's
simulation, or if you
believe in God or Buddha,
or if you're an atheist,
and there's nothing
beyond this physical world--
the most powerful technology in
the universe is consciousness.
If your consciousness
can change the chemistry
of your body, if your
consciousness can allow you
to see perfectly without
the use of your eyes,
if your consciousness
can allow you
to move a physical object
without physical contact,
if you can influence
an electrical device,
an electronic
device, or a computer
nearby or at a distance, well,
then who's more powerful-- you
or the physical world?
>> Consciousness evolves
by lowering its entropy.
It does that by making choices.
And by those choices,
the individuated use
of consciousness can evolve
if they make good choices
toward caring, toward
love, toward consideration,
or they can make poor
choices and de-evolve
toward fear, self-centeredness.
It's all about me.
>> We live in a world where
freedom and free will are part
of the design.
And within that, there's
choices that can be made,
and those choices have impact
throughout the entire quantum
field, all great distances
from our thoughts
and how that bounces off and
echoes out of the matrix,
and how that bounces
back and influences us.
So there's a dialogue
going on with that.
>> So we sort of
come to this world,
and I guess in our
materialistic sense,
we want to forget the
vibrations and things like that.
We just want to think
of matter and stuff.
>> What part of your life has
been the most significant?
And I'll bet it's not the stuff.
It's not the car.
It's not the house you live in.
It's there, and it's important.
You need your car to
get around and so on,
but what's really
important in your life
are your relationships,
the caring, the love,
the significance of
connecting with other people.
>> What am I doing here?
I know.
I have to pass on my this, and
I have to give my kids this,
and I have to-- it's
all of this stuff.
>> Love, I think, is the
main reason we are here.
>> For me, knowing that that's
it allows me to look at every
day, and just I'm
in love with life.
>> The purpose of the
universe is for life to emerge
and thrive.
We believe that these
principles are universe-wide.
>> The purpose in so many
ways of existence is to know
thyself.
The self-awareness
of the universe
is profound quality
of awareness,
of conscious awareness
of existence,
is inherent in the
universe itself.
>> Exploring your superhuman
abilities allows you
to discover your own
potential, the mechanics
of your consciousness.
In other words, understand
who you really are.
As you think, as you
feel, as you make choices,
you contribute to the expansion
of humanity as a whole,
from a limited state of being
to an elevated superhuman
species that fits
within the grand design
of an intelligent universe.
So now ask yourself,
are you a superhuman?
[MUSIC PLAYING]